README.md, before:

# Chart.js

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/chartjs/Chart.js.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chartjs/Chart.js) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/nnnick/Chart.js/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/nnnick/Chart.js) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/chartjs/Chart.js/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/chartjs/Chart.js?branch=master)

[![Chart.js on Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-Chart.js-blue.svg)](https://chart-js-automation.herokuapp.com/)

*Simple HTML5 Charts using the canvas element* [chartjs.org](http://www.chartjs.org)

## Installation

You can download the latest version of [Chart.js on GitHub](https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.js/releases/latest) or just use these [Chart.js CDN](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/Chart.js) links.

To install via npm:

```bash
npm install chart.js --save
```

To Install via bower, please follow [these instructions](http://www.chartjs.org/docs/#getting-started-installation).

## Documentation

You can find documentation at [www.chartjs.org/docs](http://www.chartjs.org/docs). The markdown files that build the site are available under `/docs`. Previous version documentation is available at [www.chartjs.org/docs/#notes-previous-versions](http://www.chartjs.org/docs/#notes-previous-versions).

## Contributing

Before submitting an issue or a pull request to the project, please take a moment to look over the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

For support using Chart.js, please post questions with the [`chartjs` tag on Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/chartjs).

## Building and Testing

To build, run `gulp build`.

To test, run `gulp test`.

To test against code standards, run `gulp lint`.

More information on building and testing can be found in [gulpfile.js](gulpfile.js).

Thanks to [BrowserStack](https://browserstack.com) for allowing our team to test on thousands of browsers.

## License

Chart.js is available under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Update installation instructions in README

README.md, after:

# Chart.js

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/chartjs/Chart.js.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chartjs/Chart.js) [![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/nnnick/Chart.js/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/nnnick/Chart.js) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/chartjs/Chart.js/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/chartjs/Chart.js?branch=master)

[![Chart.js on Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-Chart.js-blue.svg)](https://chart-js-automation.herokuapp.com/)

*Simple HTML5 Charts using the canvas element* [chartjs.org](http://www.chartjs.org)

## Installation

You can download the latest version of Chart.js from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.js/releases/latest) or use a [Chart.js CDN](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/Chart.js).

To install via npm:

```bash
npm install chart.js --save
```

To install via bower:
```bash
bower install chart.js --save
```

#### Selecting the Correct Build

Chart.js provides two different builds that are available for your use. The `Chart.js` and `Chart.min.js` files include Chart.js and the accompanying color parsing library. If this version is used and you require the use of the time axis, [Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/) will need to be included before Chart.js.

The `Chart.bundle.js` and `Chart.bundle.min.js` builds include Moment.js in a single file. This version should be used if you require time axes and want a single file to include, select this version. Do not use this build if your application already includes Moment.js. If you do, Moment.js will be included twice, increasing the page load time and potentially introducing version issues.

## Documentation

You can find documentation at [www.chartjs.org/docs](http://www.chartjs.org/docs). The markdown files that build the site are available under `/docs`. Previous version documentation is available at [www.chartjs.org/docs/#notes-previous-versions](http://www.chartjs.org/docs/#notes-previous-versions).

## Contributing

Before submitting an issue or a pull request to the project, please take a moment to look over the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

For support using Chart.js, please post questions with the [`chartjs` tag on Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/chartjs).

## Building and Testing

To build, run `gulp build`.

To test, run `gulp test`.

To test against code standards, run `gulp lint`.

More information on building and testing can be found in [gulpfile.js](gulpfile.js).

Thanks to [BrowserStack](https://browserstack.com) for allowing our team to test on thousands of browsers.

## License

Chart.js is available under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
