docs/notes/extensions.md, before:

# Popular Extensions

There are many extensions which are available for use with popular frameworks. Some particularly notable ones are listed here.

## Angular
 - <a href="https://github.com/jtblin/angular-chart.js" target="_blank">angular-chart.js</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/carlcraig/tc-angular-chartjs" target="_blank">tc-angular-chartjs</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/petermelias/angular-chartjs" target="_blank">angular-chartjs</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/earlonrails/angular-chartjs-directive" target="_blank">Angular Chart-js Directive</a>

## React
 - <a href="https://github.com/topdmc/react-chartjs2" target="_blank">react-chartjs2</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/gor181/react-chartjs-2" target="_blank">react-chartjs-2</a>

## Django
 - <a href="https://github.com/matthisk/django-jchart" target="_blank">Django JChart</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/novafloss/django-chartjs" target="_blank">Django Chartjs</a>

## Ruby on Rails
 - <a href="https://github.com/airblade/chartjs-ror" target="_blank">chartjs-ror</a>

## Laravel
 - <a href="https://github.com/fxcosta/laravel-chartjs" target="_blank">laravel-chartjs</a>

#### Vue.js
 - <a href="https://github.com/apertureless/vue-chartjs/" target="_blank">vue-chartjs</a>

Commit message:

Add financial chart type to plugin docs

docs/notes/extensions.md, after:

# Popular Extensions

Many extensions can be found on the [Chart.js GitHub organization](https://github.com/chartjs) or on the [npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=chartjs-).

## Charts

 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/chartjs-chart-financial" target="_blank">chartjs-chart-financial</a> - Adds financial chart types such as a candlestick.
 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.BarFunnel.js" target="_blank">Chart.BarFunnel.js</a> - Adds a bar funnel chart type.
 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.LinearGauge.js" target="_blank">Chart.LinearGauge.js</a> - Adds a linear gauge chart type.
 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/Chart.smith.js" target="_blank">Chart.Smith.js</a> - Adds a smith chart type.

In addition, many charts can be found on the [npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=chartjs-chart-).

## Plugins

 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/chartjs-plugin-annotation" target="_blank">chartjs-plugin-annotation.js</a> - Draw lines and boxes on chart area.
 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/chartjs-plugin-deferred" target="_blank">chartjs-plugin-deferred.js</a> - Defer initial chart update until chart scrolls into viewport.
 - <a href="https://github.com/compwright/chartjs-plugin-draggable" target="_blank">chartjs-plugin-draggable.js</a> - Makes select chart elements draggable with the mouse.
 - <a href="https://github.com/y-takey/chartjs-plugin-stacked100" target="_blank">chartjs-plugin-stacked100.js</a> - Draw 100% stacked bar chart.
 - <a href="https://github.com/chartjs/chartjs-plugin-zoom" target="_blank">chartjs-plugin-zoom.js</a> - Enable zooming and panning on charts.

In addition, many plugins can be found on the [npm registry](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=chartjs-plugin-).

## Integrations

### Angular
 - <a href="https://github.com/jtblin/angular-chart.js" target="_blank">angular-chart.js</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/carlcraig/tc-angular-chartjs" target="_blank">tc-angular-chartjs</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/petermelias/angular-chartjs" target="_blank">angular-chartjs</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/earlonrails/angular-chartjs-directive" target="_blank">Angular Chart-js Directive</a>

### React
 - <a href="https://github.com/topdmc/react-chartjs2" target="_blank">react-chartjs2</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/gor181/react-chartjs-2" target="_blank">react-chartjs-2</a>

### Django
 - <a href="https://github.com/matthisk/django-jchart" target="_blank">Django JChart</a>
 - <a href="https://github.com/novafloss/django-chartjs" target="_blank">Django Chartjs</a>

### Ruby on Rails
 - <a href="https://github.com/airblade/chartjs-ror" target="_blank">chartjs-ror</a>

### Laravel
 - <a href="https://github.com/fxcosta/laravel-chartjs" target="_blank">laravel-chartjs</a>

### Vue.js
 - <a href="https://github.com/apertureless/vue-chartjs/" target="_blank">vue-chartjs</a>
