docs/axes/cartesian/time.md, before:

# Time Cartesian Axis

The time scale is used to display times and dates. When building its ticks, it will automatically calculate the most comfortable unit base on the size of the scale.

## Configuration Options

The following options are provided by the time scale. They are all located in the `time` sub options. These options extend the [common tick configuration](README.md#tick-configuration).

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| -----| ---- | --------| -----------
| `displayFormats` | `Object` | | Sets how different time units are displayed. [more...](#display-formats)
| `isoWeekday` | `Boolean` | `false` | If true and the unit is set to 'week', iso weekdays will be used.
| `max` | [Time](#date-formats) | | If defined, this will override the data maximum
| `min` | [Time](#date-formats) | | If defined, this will override the data minimum
| `parser` | `String` or `Function` | | Custom parser for dates. [more...](#parser)
| `round` | `String` | `false` | If defined, dates will be rounded to the start of this unit. See [Time Units](#time-units) below for the allowed units.
| `tooltipFormat` | `String` | | The moment js format string to use for the tooltip.
| `unit` | `String` | `false` | If defined, will force the unit to be a certain type. See [Time Units](#time-units) section below for details.
| `stepSize` | `Number` | `1` | The number of units between grid lines.
| `minUnit` | `String` | `'millisecond'` | The minimum display format to be used for a time unit.

## Date Formats

When providing data for the time scale, Chart.js supports all of the formats that Moment.js accepts. See [Moment.js docs](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/parsing/) for details.

## Time Units

The following time measurements are supported. The names can be passed as strings to the `time.unit` config option to force a certain unit.

* millisecond
* second
* minute
* hour
* day
* week
* month
* quarter
* year

For example, to create a chart with a time scale that always displayed units per month, the following config could be used.

```javascript
var chart = new Chart(ctx, {
    type: 'line',
    data: data,
    options: {
        scales: {
            xAxes: [{
                time: {
                    unit: 'month'
                }
            }]
        }
    }
})
```

## Display Formats
The following display formats are used to configure how different time units are formed into strings for the axis tick marks. See [moment.js](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/) for the allowable format strings.

Name | Default | Example
--- | --- | ---
millisecond | 'h:mm:ss.SSS a' | 11:20:01.123 AM
second | 'h:mm:ss a' | 11:20:01 AM
minute | 'h:mm a' | 11:20 AM
hour | 'hA' | 11AM
day | 'MMM D' | Sep 4
week | 'll' | Sep 4 2015
month | 'MMM YYYY' | Sep 2015
quarter | '[Q]Q - YYYY' | Q3 - 2015
year | 'YYYY' | 2015

For example, to set the display format for the 'quarter' unit to show the month and year, the following config would be passed to the chart constructor.

```javascript
var chart = new Chart(ctx, {
    type: 'line',
    data: data,
    options: {
        scales: {
            xAxes: [{
                type: 'time',
                time: {
                    displayFormats: {
                        quarter: 'MMM YYYY'
                    }
                }
            }]
        }
    }
})
```

## Parser
If this property is defined as a string, it is interpreted as a custom format to be used by moment to parse the date. 

If this is a function, it must return a moment.js object given the appropriate data value.

Commit message:

Allow specifying the time axis via t attribute (#4533)
For time series charts it may make more sense to specify the horizontal axis using the variable `t`. This change will make it much easier to use the time scale with the financial chart, which takes in the data points `{t, o, h, l, c}`.

docs/axes/cartesian/time.md, after:

# Time Cartesian Axis

The time scale is used to display times and dates. When building its ticks, it will automatically calculate the most comfortable unit base on the size of the scale.

## Data Sets

### Input Data

The x-axis data points may additionally be specified via the `t` attribute when using the time scale.

    data: [{
        x: new Date(),
        y: 1
    }, {
        t: new Date(),
        y: 10
    }]


### Date Formats

When providing data for the time scale, Chart.js supports all of the formats that Moment.js accepts. See [Moment.js docs](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/parsing/) for details.

## Configuration Options

The following options are provided by the time scale. They are all located in the `time` sub options. These options extend the [common tick configuration](README.md#tick-configuration).

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| -----| ---- | --------| -----------
| `displayFormats` | `Object` | | Sets how different time units are displayed. [more...](#display-formats)
| `isoWeekday` | `Boolean` | `false` | If true and the unit is set to 'week', iso weekdays will be used.
| `max` | [Time](#date-formats) | | If defined, this will override the data maximum
| `min` | [Time](#date-formats) | | If defined, this will override the data minimum
| `parser` | `String` or `Function` | | Custom parser for dates. [more...](#parser)
| `round` | `String` | `false` | If defined, dates will be rounded to the start of this unit. See [Time Units](#time-units) below for the allowed units.
| `tooltipFormat` | `String` | | The moment js format string to use for the tooltip.
| `unit` | `String` | `false` | If defined, will force the unit to be a certain type. See [Time Units](#time-units) section below for details.
| `stepSize` | `Number` | `1` | The number of units between grid lines.
| `minUnit` | `String` | `'millisecond'` | The minimum display format to be used for a time unit.

### Time Units

The following time measurements are supported. The names can be passed as strings to the `time.unit` config option to force a certain unit.

* millisecond
* second
* minute
* hour
* day
* week
* month
* quarter
* year

For example, to create a chart with a time scale that always displayed units per month, the following config could be used.

```javascript
var chart = new Chart(ctx, {
    type: 'line',
    data: data,
    options: {
        scales: {
            xAxes: [{
                time: {
                    unit: 'month'
                }
            }]
        }
    }
})
```

### Display Formats
The following display formats are used to configure how different time units are formed into strings for the axis tick marks. See [moment.js](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/) for the allowable format strings.

Name | Default | Example
--- | --- | ---
millisecond | 'h:mm:ss.SSS a' | 11:20:01.123 AM
second | 'h:mm:ss a' | 11:20:01 AM
minute | 'h:mm a' | 11:20 AM
hour | 'hA' | 11AM
day | 'MMM D' | Sep 4
week | 'll' | Sep 4 2015
month | 'MMM YYYY' | Sep 2015
quarter | '[Q]Q - YYYY' | Q3 - 2015
year | 'YYYY' | 2015

For example, to set the display format for the 'quarter' unit to show the month and year, the following config would be passed to the chart constructor.

```javascript
var chart = new Chart(ctx, {
    type: 'line',
    data: data,
    options: {
        scales: {
            xAxes: [{
                type: 'time',
                time: {
                    displayFormats: {
                        quarter: 'MMM YYYY'
                    }
                }
            }]
        }
    }
})
```

### Parser
If this property is defined as a string, it is interpreted as a custom format to be used by moment to parse the date. 

If this is a function, it must return a moment.js object given the appropriate data value.
