.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/BUG.md, before:

---
name: Bug Report
about: Something went awry
labels: 'type: bug'
---

<!--
  Need help or support? Please don't open an issue!
  Head to https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/chart.js

  Bug reports MUST be submitted with an interactive example:
  https://codepen.io/pen?template=JXVYzq

  Chart.js 1.x is NOT supported anymore, new issues will be disregarded.
-->

## Expected Behavior
<!-- Tell us what should happen -->

## Current Behavior
<!-- Tell us what happens instead of the expected behavior -->

## Possible Solution
<!-- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, -->
<!-- or ideas how to implement the addition or change -->

## Steps to Reproduce (for bugs)
<!--
  Provide a link to a live example. Bug reports MUST be submitted with an
  interactive example (https://codepen.io/pen?template=JXVYzq).
-->

## Context
<!--
  How has this issue affected you? What are you trying to accomplish? Providing
  context helps us come up with a solution that is most useful in the real world
-->

## Environment
<!-- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Chart.js version:
* Browser name and version:
* Link to your project:

Commit message:

Add a note about how to include an example against master (#6107)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/BUG.md, after:

---
name: Bug Report
about: Something went awry
labels: 'type: bug'
---

<!--
  Need help or support? Please don't open an issue!
  Head to https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/chart.js

  Bug reports MUST be submitted with an interactive example:
  https://codepen.io/pen?template=JXVYzq

  Chart.js 1.x is NOT supported anymore, new issues will be disregarded.
-->

## Expected Behavior
<!-- Tell us what should happen -->

## Current Behavior
<!-- Tell us what happens instead of the expected behavior -->

## Possible Solution
<!--
  Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug,
  or ideas how to implement the addition or change
-->

## Steps to Reproduce (for bugs)
<!--
  Provide a link to a live example. Bug reports MUST be submitted with an
  interactive example (https://codepen.io/pen?template=JXVYzq).

  If filing a bug against `master`, you may reference the latest code via
  https://www.chartjs.org/dist/master/Chart.min.js (changing the filename to
  point at the file you need as appropriate). Do not rely on these files for
  production purposes as they may be removed at any time.
-->

## Context
<!--
  How has this issue affected you? What are you trying to accomplish? Providing
  context helps us come up with a solution that is most useful in the real world
-->

## Environment
<!-- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Chart.js version:
* Browser name and version:
* Link to your project:
